Israel is to send a delegation to
Washington to discuss its planned ground
offensive in the southern gazen city of
Rafa Israel's prime minister remains
determined to move forward with the
assault despite the US and others urging
caution America's top Diplomat Anthony
blinkin is expected in the Middle East
later on Wednesday for talks about a
ceasefire he's warned that the entire
gazen population is now facing severe
hunger as Israel's war against Hamas
drags on in the wake of the October 7
Terror
attacks nearly 6 months into Israel's
war with Hamas the UN is saying that the
looming famine in Gaza is no accident
painful
miserable hunger is spreading in a place
which before never ever encountered
hunger so this is clearly a manmade
clearly uh what manm made
artificially created hunger crisis the
commissioner General tried to go to Gaza
to assess the situation but Israel
refused to let him in he now feels that
dealing with the hunger crisis there
comes down to commited support basically
we we're talking about 20 30 40 trucks I
I I believe the largest barrier is the
absence of political will as simple as
that if you have a political will you
can address it as lazarini implied the
world is putting pressure on Israel to
allow more Aid into Gaza including
pressure from one of its closest allies
the United
States 100% of the population in Gaza is
at severe levels of acute food
insecurity that's the first time an
entire population has been so
classified um we also see again uh
according to in this case the United
Nations 100% the totality of the
population is in need of humanitarian
assistance Israel pushed back saying
it's already making Provisions for THS
placing it at odds with the US mdle e
idea that we're going to trap a million
two we're not going to let them go out
they're not going to leave we don't have
arrangements for them
that's that's not true we're going to
move the various uh International
agencies that are in the South we're
going to say move here move there move
there there precise locations this war
so far it's unclear what Arrangements is
has made in my opinion the future trucks
with a shipments are still being denied
entry into the Gaza Strip and crowds of
gazans are waiting for food trying to
fend off a famine that the world has
warned as imminent unless something
changes we should mention the
humanitarian situation in gazer already
suffered a serious blow after several
donor countries withdrew funding for the
UN relief Agency for Palestinians Israel
had accused Hamas of infiltrating the
organization now former French foreign
minister krine Kalona is due to submit
an independent review of those
allegations the review was ordered by
unad Philip lazarini after Israel
claimed that at least 12 of its staff
members were involved in the October 7th
attacks and that a further 450 alleged
Hamas military operatives were employed
by the
agency I intended to for more I'm joined
by DW correspondent Rebecca Ritter in
Jerusalem Rebecca as we just heard
former French foreign minister uh krine
Kalona will submit an interim report on
the role of unra in the October 7 Terror
attacks on Israel tell us more about
that well that's right Michael and as
you rightly mentioned this is an interim
report a preliminary report with the
final expected within the next four
weeks or so by the end of April now as
you also mentioned this was ordered by
the unra chief Philip Philip lazarini
who you heard from there a little bit in
that report you just played uh now he
ordered that after Israel accused or
alleged that 12 unra staff members were
involved in the October 7 attacks those
accusations coming at the end of January
and that's when he ordered that report
now Philip lazarini uh instantly
dismissed uh nine of those uh employees
that were um caught up in those
allegations one had subsequently died
and two the identity of two uh was being
looked into but taking very Swift action
there in fact going against un's normal
standard policy which would be to
suspend and investigate but given the
severity of the allegations and of
course all the political rhetoric and
all the uh of course the political
situation surrounding uh those
allegations he took very Swift action
called for this report now Israel says a
further 10% of un staff are Hamas
supporters they haven't given evidence
to support these claims but that is what
something that will be looked into into
this report just what's going to be in
the report remains to be seen Michael
but we know that it's going to focus on
how to protect un's neutrality of course
recruitment of staff and how they
handled the allegations uh that came out
in January now as I mentioned this was a
pre this is to be a preliminary report
we are expecting it to be released to
the public at least the final report not
clear whether this preliminary report
will be released to the public or
whether we'll have to wait another four
weeks to find out what's in it Rebecca
of course the ongoing news is that
Israel and the United States are openly
disagreeing about this planed offensive
on Rafa an Israeli delegation is
expected to visit Washington to discuss
ways to avoid it from what you're
hearing what does the US reasonably
expect of
Israel yes the US and Israel really at
loggerheads with how the situation in
Gaza is going to proceed the the US
insisting that it is possible for Israel
to achieve its military aims which is of
course to eliminate Hamas to have the
hostages released without actually
having to go in and and and do a further
ground incursion into Rafa that is
something that Israel vehemently
disagrees with they say that they are
absolutely determined to push ahead
they've been saying that for some weeks
now even months and we heard even prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu you heard
him there in that report we heard him
come out yesterday and say that they
would be uh in fact doing so regardless
of the fact that their closest Ally is
calling them uh calling for them not to
do that you're reporting rightly that
they uh have called the US has called
for a delegation of isra an Israeli
delegation to head to Washington to
discuss with a US delegation about the
ways in which they could proceed without
having to go through but at this stage
certainly looking like Israel is not
going to back down certainly not without
some kind of ceasefire which is still of
course being negotiated ated but uh not
yet coming to
fruition Rebecca we have less than half
a minute but I do want to ask you this
the US Secretary of State is making a
new push to negotiate a ceasefire
between Israel and Hamas I'm curious
from your ground level vantage point is
there still
hope there's always hope Michael and
that's certainly what the families of
the hostages maintain they they
continuously come out and say we we
maintain hope what other choice do we
have uh of course hope isn't enough and
the negotiations are ongoing but it's
been some five months since the November
uh ceasefire agreement and the first uh
tranch of hostages that were released so
many many steps still to go We've Come
Close uh during these negotiations but
you know we're not that no one it's not
over the line until it's over the line
so hope maint maintains but uh but no
sign of that coming to fruition yet
understood that's DW correspondent
Rebecca Ritter in Jerusalem many thanks